All right.
So we saw the loveliness of X a charge X AML HDP requests.
It didn't seem that bad.
I mean it's a little extra syntax but if this was the only way we had to make requests we can obviously
make it work where it gets kind of annoying is once we start making these requests that are dependent
on one another.
So for example here we're getting all the planets back or at least the first 10 planets.
And if we look just on the API this is a little dashboard.
If we look at the data we get back.
It includes residents and films which are actually just references to other API endpoints.
So if I wanted to take the first planet and look at the first resident of that planet I would send another
request to this.
You are.
So let's do that through our code.
We need to wait for the first request to come back.
Then we'll look inside results.
We'll get the first results.
The first planet looking residents will get the first resident and send a request to that you are all
let's see if it works.
So up here we would have to write our code inside the callback to make a second request.
So we're getting our data.
Why don't we just start by singling out the you are.
We want to request so that's data dot but is it results dot.
We want the first result so of zero.
We can start by printing that
refresh the page on my Web page.
OK.
So that's the first result.
Then we want residents or we could do films that might be more interesting.
Why don't we do films.
So we'll do data dot results of zero dot films.
That's an array.
We want the first.
You are all that we get from that films array which is right here.
Swap eco slash API such films slash 6.
This is a you URL that we can send a request to to get more information.
And it looks like what is this film slash 6 is revenge of the Sith.
Honestly I know almost nothing about Star Wars sadly I love sci fi and fantasy but somehow I've never
seen them.
So let's now send a request to this you are out so we have the euro.
We'll save it to a variable we'll call this concert film you Earl then we have to do all of this again.
So we make a new object concert film request equals new exam I'll TTP request not capitalized even though
I always attempt to do it the first time then film request that at event listener on load put our callback
in here let's just consider it log jam let's do this just to start then we'll add our other event listener
if it fails.
So for the error with the at event listener for error at our function and here we do have an event object
by the way that we can use.
Why don't we cancel that log error and then also show the event object that error event object and then
we need to actually send the request but first we have to open it like we did down here.
So film request dot open you want to get request and the U.R.L. this time is this you are row right
here film you are about that we extracted from the response of the very first request so film you are
out then finally film request send.
So if it works we should see this printed out first we'll say first request worked and then let's add
a second console dialog here.
Second request worked
let's give it a look first.
Hey second one works.
Take a look at what we get back instead of response or response text.
We've got title let's just print the movie title.
So we need to pass again so this references the entire film request object.
We want this dot response text which is exactly what we did in the first request.
We want to pass that whole thing.
So we use that magic method that comes for free with JavaScript.
Jason that part that turns it into javascript.
We'll save this in a variable called Film data and we can just console that log film data.
Now try it again.
Now we have an actual javascript object and it contains information.
So we sent one request to get all the planets and we're just arbitrarily selecting the first planet
and the first film that it appears in.
It also appears I think this planet whatever the first planet was all drawn or something.
I don't know.
Might have made that up.
Whatever the first planet is it appears in two films.
We took the first one and we requested information about that using the URL from that films array from
the first result.
So we couldn't make the second request until the first one was successfully completed.
So we have to nested inside here these nasty nested callbacks.
This is just not a good look and it's still only what two levels deep it's not bad.
We're not even doing much with our errors at all.
We're not handling them we're not trying to make a subsequent request.
Often you will try and make another request if the first one errors.
You might try something different.
And then that subsequent request needs to have its own two callbacks.
Things get very messy very quickly which is really the main reason that I don't like to use x jars.
Why Most people don't like them.
It's just difficult.
It gets messy and nested which is why fetch was created which is what we'll see just after this video
fetch supports promises which makes it way way easier to make subsequent requests or to handle failures.
We need one catch.
So if you didn't watch the promises section definitely go back and check it out.
It will help you really understand what is so amazing about fetch and promises in general.
So that's coming up next.